.NET 10 Preview 1 breaking changes batch (#44625)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/cryptography/10.0/x500distinguishedname-validation.md

---
title: "Breaking change: X500DistinguishedName validation is stricter"

> description: Learn about the .NET 10 breaking change in core .NET libraries where X500DistinguishedName validation is stricter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about the .NET 10 breaking change in cryptography where X500DistinguishedName validation is stricter.
```

.NET 10 Preview 1

## Type of breaking change

This change is a [behavioral change](../../categories.md#behavioral-change).

## Reason for change

Different X.500 components have specific encoding rules. For example, `id-at-telephoneNumber` must be encoded as an ASN.1 <xref:System.Formats.Asn1.UniversalTagNumber.PrintableString>. The exclamation point character is invalid for a PrintableString, so:

```C#
new X500DistinguishedName("Phone=!!");
```

This would throw an exception on Windows but was encoded as a UTF8String on non-Windows. Similarly, using <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X500DistinguishedNameFlags.ForceUTF8Encoding?displayProperty=nameWithType> would force UTF8String encoding even when not permitted:

```C#
new X500DistinguishedName("Phone=000-555-1234", X500DistinguishedNameFlags.ForceUTF8Encoding);
```

This change ensures encoding aligns with specifications and Windows behavior.

## Recommended action

Generally, no action is needed unless compatibility with incorrect encoding is required. Use <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X500DistinguishedNameBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> to create instances with desired encoding:

> ```C#

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csharp
```
